# Silver Mare Coin Digital Certificate of Authenticity

This project is to create a Digital Certificate of Authenticity (DCoA) for the [Silver Mare Coin Project](https://desuarchive.org/mlp/search/subject/mlpmg/) thread on [/mlp/](https://4channel.org/mlp/).  This DCoA will be created using an [ERC-721](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-721) token contract on the [Polygon blockchain](https://polygon.technology/) (subject to change).

In order to claim a certificate, a claim code will need to be provided.  These claim codes will consist of your coin serial number(s) and a hash of a signed message by a predetermined address (**TBD**); verifying the signature originated from the predetermined address will prevent tampering and prove the claimant was the original purchaser of the Silver Mare Coin.  Claim codes will be provided by a Silver Mare Coin Project manager to the purchasers.

Thus each certificate generated by this contract will only be claimable by a purchaser of a Silver Mare Coin, and each purchaser will be issued as many claim codes to match the number of Silver Mare Coins they purchased (if they so desire).  In addition to the **serial number**, each certificate will also contain the following metadata:

* **Year** the coin was minted (2022)
* **Composition** of the coin (99.9% Ag)
* **Weight** of the coin (31.10 g)
* **Diameter** of the coin (39 mm)
* **Thickness** of the coin (3.05 mm)
* **Orientation** of the coin (Coin alignment ↑↓)
* **Location** where the coin was minted (United States)
* **Shape** of the coin (round)
* An **image** representation of the coin (based on the final design submitted to the mint)

***If you would like to suggest additional metadata, please be sure to do so before this contract goes live; once it does, all metadata is baked into the blockchain and can never be updated!***

## Deployment
Here is the contract address of the official Silver Mare Coin Digital Certificate of Authenticity (only the one on the Polygon network counts; there may be deployments to test networks for testing purposes).  All of these contracts will be verified on Polygonscan in order to make interacting with them *very easy*.  Click the link below, then click on `Read Contract` to get data and `Write Contract` to execute functions that modify the block chain (you will need a wallet like [Metamask](https://metamask.io/) if you are using the `Write Contract` functions).

* Polygon: **[TBD](https://polygonscan.com/address/TBD#code "View on Polygonscan")**
* Mumbai (test network): **[TBD](https://polygonscan.com/address/TBD#code "View on Polygonscan")**

If you need to claim your tokens and need a small amount of MATIC, please send your wallet address to <iwtcits@mare.biz> and I will send you some. (**TBD** looking into a way to make these claims gasless.)

## How to claim your certificate(s)
**TBD** This may be a Web site (if I or another volunteer has time) or a guide on how to make the claim using Polygonscan.

---

## Complete documentation
*Please note below that the terms `tokenId`, certificate number, certificate ID, and serial number all refer to the same number.*

### Functions
<ul>
<li>Custom functions
<dl>
<dt><code>cap() returns (uint16)</code></dt>
<dd>Returns the total possible number of certificates that can be claimed.</dd>

<dt><code>certificateSigningHash(uint16 number) returns bytes32</code></dt>
<dd>Returns the certificate signing hash which is then signed by the proper signer; this is of limited utility to anyone except the signer when creating the claim signatures.</dd>

<dt><code>claimCertificate(uint16 number, bytes signature)</code></dt>
<dd>Verifies that the given <code>signature</code> matches the one generated for the given certificate <code>number</code> and was signed by the proper signer.  If this is all correct, it then issues the matching certificate and a <code>CertificateClaimed</code> event is emitted.</dd>

<dt><code>contractURI() returns (string)</code></dt>
<dd>Returns the Uniform Resource Indicator (URI) for this contract.  This is used by token metadata sites to display overall collection metadata related to all the certificates issued by this contract.</dd>

<dt><code>floor() returns (uint16)</code></dt>
<dd>Returns the smallest possible certificate number that can be claimed (should always be 1).</dd>

<dt><code>isCertificateClaimed(uint16 number) returns (bool)</code></dt>
<dd>Returns true if the certificate with the given <code>number</code> has already been claimed; otherwise, returns false.</dd>

<dt><code>SIGNER() returns (address)</code></dt>
<dd>Returns the address of the proper signer.</dd>

<dt><code>versionRecipient() returns (string memory)</code></dt>
<dd>Returns the compatible <a href="https://opengsn.org/">OpenGSN</a> recipient version.</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><a href="https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-721">ERC-721</a> standard functions
<dl>
<dt><code>approve(address approved, uint256 tokenId)</code></dt>
<dd>Sets an approved address that is allowed to transfer the certificate specified by the <code>tokenId</code>.  Only use this if you need to transfer your certificate to another address using an external smart contract.  Set to the zero address to clear this approval when you are done.</dd>

<dt><code>balanceOf(address owner) returns (uint256)</code></dt>
<dd>Returns the number of certificates held by an owner address</dd>

<dt><code>getApproved(uint256 tokenId) returns (address)</code></dt>
<dd>Gets the approved address for a single certificate specified by the <code>tokenId</code>.  Will return the zero address if there is no approved address.</dd>

<dt><code>isApprovedForAll(address owner, address operator) returns (bool)</code></dt>
<dd>Returns true if the given operator is approved to transfer all of owner's certificates.  Otherwise, returns false.</dd>

<dt><code>ownerOf(uint256 tokenId) returns (address)</code></dt>
<dd>Returns the address of the owner of the certificate specified by the <code>tokenId</code></dd>

<dt><code>safeTransferFrom(address from, address to, uint256 tokenId, bytes data)</code></dt>
<dt><code>safeTransferFrom(address from, address to, uint256 tokenId)</code></dt>
<dd>Transfers the ownership of the certificate specified by <code>tokenId</code> from one address to another, along with optional data in no specified format.</dd>

<dt><code>setApprovalForAll(address operator, bool approved)</code></dt>
<dd>Allows a third party operator to manage all of your Silver Mare Coin certificates.  This opeartor is added to a list of operators with such approval.  Be sure to call this function again with a <code>false</code> value for <code>approved</code> once your are done.  This should only be used when you need to transfer your certificate to another address using an external smart contract.</dd>

<dt><code>transferFrom(address from, address to, uint256 tokenId)</code></dt>
<dd>Transfers the ownership of the certificate specified by <code>tokenId</code> from one address to another, along with optional data in no specified format.  <b>Please note that if the recipient wallet is not able to receive ERC-721 tokens, the transfer may fail and the certificate may be lost.</b>  For this reason, it's <i>highly</i> recommended you use <code>safeTransferFrom()</code> instead.</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><a href="https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-721">ERC-721</a> metadata extension
<dl>
<dt><code>name() returns (string)</code></dt>
<dd>Returns the name of this certificate; i.e., <q>Silver Mare Coin Digital Certificate of Authenticity</q>.</dd>

<dt><code>symbol() returns (string)</code></dt>
<dd>Returns the symbol of this certificate; i.e., <q>SMC DCoA</q> (<b>TBD</b>).</dd>

<dt><code>tokenURI(uint256 tokenId) returns (string)</code></dt>
<dd>Returns a <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Base64">Base64</a>-encoded <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/Data_URIs"><code>data:</code> URI</a> representing the JSON document that defines the metadata for the certificate specified by <code>tokenId</code>.  This JSON document also contains a Base64-encoded <code>data:</code> URI representing an SVG image depicting the coin (<b>TBD</b>, could also be a JSON file hosted on an immutable service like <a href="https://ipfs.io/">IPFS</a>).  This is used by external sites to display the image and metadata for this certificate.</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><a href="https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-721">ERC-721</a> enumeration extension
<dl>
<dt><code>tokenOfOwnerByIndex(address owner, uint256 index) returns (uint256)</code></dt>
<dd>Returns the certificate number at the specified <code>index</code> of the given owner.  Allows for enumeration of all certificates held by an address.</dd>

<dt><code>tokenByIndex(uint256 index) returns (uint256)</code></dt>
<dd>Returns the certificate number at the specified <code>index</code>.  Allows for enumeration of all certificates issued by this contract.</dd>

<dt><code>totalSupply() returns (uint256)</code></dt>
<dd>Returns the total number of valid certificates issued by this contract (this number may increase but will never be higher than the <code>cap</code>.</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><a href="https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-165">ERC-165</a> (required by ERC-721)
<dl>
<dt><code>supportsInterface(bytes4 interfaceId) returns (bool)</code></dt>
<dd>Returns true if this contract supports the interface specified by <code>interfaceId</code> (as defined in ERC-165).  Otherwise, returns false.</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li><a href="https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-173">ERC-173</a> (<b>TBD</b> conformance to this may or may not be required by this contract; if not, all related functions will be removed)
<dl>
<dt><code>owner() returns (address)</code></dt>
<dd>Returns the address that owns the Silver Mare Coin certificate contract.</dd>

<dt><code>transferOwnership(address newOwner)</code></dt>
<dd>Sets the owner of this contract to the address specified by <code>newOwner</code>.  Only callable by the address specified in <code>owner()</code></dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>

### Events
<ul>
<li>Custom events
<dl>
<dt><code>CertificateClaimed(address indexed by, uint16 indexed id)</code></dt>
<dd>Emitted when certificate numbered <code>id</code> is successfully claimed by the address <code>by</code>.</dd>

<dt><code>PermanentURI(string uri, uint256 indexed tokenId)</code></dt>
<dd>Emitted at certificate creation to signal to token metadata aggregators that the metadata for this certificate is frozen and can <i>never be changed</i>.</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li>ERC-721 standard events
<dl>
<dt><code>Approval(address indexed owner, address indexed approved, uint256 indexed tokenId)</code></dt>
<dd>Emitted when an approved address for a certificate is changed or reaffirmed.  The zero address indicates there is no approved address.  When a <code>Transfer</code> event is emitted, it also indicates that the approved address for that certificate has reset to the zero address.</dd>

<dt><code>ApprovalForAll(address indexed owner, address indexed operator, bool approved)</code></dt>
<dd>Emitted when an operator is enabled or disabled for an owner.</dd>

<dt><code>Transfer(address indexed from, address indexed to, uint256 indexed tokenId)</code></dt>
<dd>Emitted whenever the ownership of a certificate changes by any mechanism, including creation and destruction.</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li>ERC-173 standard events
<dl>
<dt><code>OwnershipTransferred(address indexed previousOwner, address indexed newOwner)</code></dt>
<dd>Emitted whenever ownership of this contract has changed.</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>

### Errors
<ul>
<li>Custom errors
<dl>
<dt><code>CallerIsNotOwner(address caller, address owner)</code></dt>
<dd>Thrown when an owner-protected function is called by the non-owner address <code>caller</code> that is not the <code>owner</code> address.</dd>

<dt><code>CertificateAlreadyClaimed(uint16 number)</code></dt>
<dd>Thrown when attempting to claim certificate with number <code>number</code> that has already been claimed.</dd>

<dt><code>CertificateNumberOutOfRange(uint16 number, uint16 floor, uint16 cap)</code></dt>
<dd>Thrown when attempting to claim certificate with number <code>number</code> that is less than <code>floor</code> or greater than <code>cap</code>.</dd>

<dt><code>InvalidSignature(uint16 number, bytes signature)</code></dt>
<dd>Thrown when attemptinmg to claim certificate with number <code>number</code> with an invalid <code>signature</code>.</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>